so i'm going to cash now a few pieces of
meat and fat pork fat
let's see what the ravens are doing
by burying food for ilius to steal
buckner can observe how he hides it from
potential thieves
so now elias is approaching this cache
is already inspecting it and now
guard it right away elias takes the cash
and stores it in his throat pouch now he
has to case the joint to find a hiding
place
and bury the food out of sight of prying
eyes
but he's being secretly watched
if elias thinks he's been spotted he
changes tactic to try and throw the
potential thief off scent
it becomes a quick-witted game of
counter-strategy and deception
as agent and counter-agent try to outwit
each other
elias now pretends he's making a cash to
try and trick any watching birds
it's a bluff they can make a kind of
false cache
so that they go there and put the head
down
pretend to cover something and then go
and others might think that there is a
cash now but there
actually they didn't put the food in
it takes a thief to catch a thief
in another strategical move if the
potential pilferer knows he's been
spotted
he can also swap tactics
he pretends to look busy with his own
cash to try and appear disinterested in
ilias
they try to distract each other's
attention the cashier's attention
to a place which is totally not really
of
interest so they just actually dig
around as if
they are searching for a cache but there
hasn't been any cash made
it's an attempt to fool elias into
letting his guard down
and to continue hiding the food
revealing the sight of the cash to the
spy
but is there more to this behavior than
a simple game of hide and seek
dr buchner believes it tells us
something very special
obviously there was a kind of cognitive
answer is going on between
those who want to withhold the
information
and those who want to get information
by using tactical deception the ravens
are anticipating
and trying to predict what another bird
is doing
a level of strategy rarely seen in
animals
you